Lions to live in groups the lionesses
form the core of the pride there may be
a dozen or so all of them closely
related mothers and daughters sisters
and aunts and it's the lionesses that do
most of the hunting the two or three
males often brothers fought as a team to
drive off their predecessors and join
the pride and they will fight again if
newcomers try to displace them but for
most of the time they have a peaceful
life living in groups for the lands
brings several advantages for one thing
they can tackle large powerful prey such
as Buffalo these huge animals are three
times the weight of a lion a single
hunter would be very unlikely to tackle
a healthy adult Buffalo it simply
wouldn't have the weight and sheer
strength needed to bring one down and it
might well get injured in the attempt
but a pride working together has a
chance
a preliminary chase serves to get the
measure of the quarry and to isolate an
individual if one seems weaker than the
rest it will become the target
Lon's
attack
despite the numbers pinning it down the
Buffalo is still dangerous
it's finally killed and the feasting
begins
what about seniority and rank in this
group there's little squabbling or
fighting this kill has produced such a
huge quantity of meat that there is more
than enough for everyone so those who
haven't got a place at the carcass
amiably await their turn and that is
just as well such lethally armed hunters
as these brothers and these sisters
could easily kill one another if a
dispute became violent only in very hard
times when the pride is extremely hungry
will issues of priority be settled by
fighting lions cooperating in prides
dominate the harsh and ruthless world of
the African plains and the secret of
that success is their cooperation when
they work together no other hunters can
match them and this cooperation extends
into other parts of their lives as well
the lionesses nurture their cubs as a
team taking turns to guard them and even
on occasion suckling one another's
influence